In Proverbs chapter 8, from where our text is taken, wisdom is personified, that is,
it's represented as a person who can speak and act.
And we've always said that this describes Jesus in his pre-human existence, but how could
you prove that to someone?
The key is in Proverbs chapter 8 verse 22, let's read it.
It says, Jehovah produced me as the beginning of his way, the earliest of his achievements
of a long ago.
Well, we know Jehovah has always existed and has always been wise, neither he nor his
wisdom had a beginning, so wisdom was neither created nor produced, but Jesus, the first
born of all creation, was produced as the earliest of Jehovah's achievements.
And in this chapter, wisdom is said to represent a person who speaks and acts in wisdom.
Note verse 4, the opening quotation marks at the beginning of the verse, the closed quote
doesn't come until the end of the chapter.
Let's read verse 4, it says, to you old people, I am calling, I raise my voice to everyone.
Verse 6, listen, for what I say is important, my lips speak what is right.
Verse 20, I walk in the path of righteousness in the middle of the pathways of justice.
This certainly applies to Jesus, who is described in 1 Corinthians 124 as being the wisdom
of God.
And the Apostle Paul also said at Colossians 2-3 that carefully concealed in Christ or
all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
And certainly as God spokesman, the word, Jesus is the perfect expression of Jehovah's
wisdom.
Additionally, today's text reveals that long ago this wisdom of God, Jesus, worked beside
Jehovah.
Let's read all of verse 30.
Then I was beside him as a master worker.
I was the one he was especially fond of day by day.
I rejoiced before him all the time.
So Jehovah, the creator, worked through his son, the master worker, by means of whom Colossians
116 says, all other things were created in the heavens and the earth, from the spirit
creatures in the heavenly realm, to the immense physical universe, to the earth with its
amazing variety of plant and animal life, to the pinnacle of earthly creation humankind.
The comeby my follower book likened this cooperation between Jehovah and Jesus to that of an architect
working with a builder or contractor, who specializes in bringing the architects
ingenious designs to reality.
Now, unlike what may happen when human architects and builders work on the same project, we can
be sure that Jesus never tried to cut corners or altered Jehovah's designs.
And Jehovah did not micromanage Jesus as he went about executing those designs.
There must have been excellent collaboration between them from the very start of every
project to sustain their successful working relationship.
Let's consider just one of their wonderful accomplishments, its mention verse 27,
when he, God, prepared the heavens, I, the master worker, was there.
It's very hard for us to comprehend how immense the physical universe really is.
When Albert Einstein published his theory of relativity in 1905, he and many other scientists
believe that the universe consisted of just one galaxy, our Milky Way, of greatly the
underestimated the size of the physical universe.
But they still keep trying.
You've heard about the Hubble Space Telescope.
It's about the size of a school bus orbiting 340 miles above Earth, it's been up there
since 1990.
Astronomers aimed it at a patch of sky that seemed to be as empty as possible, no visible
stars, no nebulas, or galaxies, and they observed it and photographed it.
They picked a small speck of the heavens about the width of what you would see looking
through a narrow soda straw, and they kept the camera lens open for a total of over 100
hours to collect all the light possible as they photographed that spot.
And what did they see?
An astonishing assortment of thousands of galaxies in just this one very small sample of the heavens.
These are some of the faintest farthest galaxies ever seen, circular ones, spiral ones,
irregular ones.
No wonder astronomers say there are tens of billions of galaxies in the universe, and
that's just an educated guess, it could be far more.
While we certainly have to be impressed by the great intelligence to both the creator
and his master worker in producing the physical universe.
Many of the limitations of humans to understand what has been created all around us, science
writer Bill Bryson wrote, we live in a universe whose age we cannot quite compute, surrounded
by stars whose distances we do not altogether know, filled with matter we cannot identify,
operating in conformance with physical laws whose properties we do not truly understand.
And yet with beautiful simplicity we open the Bible to the first chapter and read the
first sentence in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
And by the second page we read that Jehovah said, let us make man in our image introducing
his master worker.
How thankful we are that we are not left in the dark about how all of this came to be.
Now speaking of the dark, when we look up at the stars, we likely have the same feelings
as did the psalmist David, if you'd like to turn to Psalm 8, Psalm number 8, the first verse,
O Jehovah our Lord, how majestic your name is throughout the earth.
You have set your splendor even higher than the heavens, verse 3.
When I see your heavens, the works of your fingers, the moon and the stars that you have prepared,
what is mortal man that you keep him in mind and a son of man that you take care of him?
The answer to that question is bound up in Jesus' own feelings about what must have been
his favorite project.
Back to Proverbs 8, look at verse 31, I rejoiced over his God's habitable earth and I was
especially fond of the sins of men.
Remember verse 30 says Jehovah was especially fond of his master worker Jesus, fondness by
the way is defined as tender affection.
Now here we're told that Jesus is especially fond of us humans and he's truly interested
in helping us to get the very best out of life.
You can see that from verse 32, and now my sons listen to me, yes, happy are those who
keep my ways, and verse 35, for the one finding me will find life and he receives approval
from Jehovah.
So since Jesus is described as wisdom personified, we must listen to him and accept him as the
one Jehovah has provided for our salvation.
But now how can we show our fondness, our tender affection for God and Christ, for the creator
and his master worker?
Well, certainly by doing the work we have been given to do as God's fellow workers and
as Christ disciples.
Today's text is taken from a watchtower article that is entitled, working together with God,
a cause for rejoicing.
And it tells about the building work that brings us the greatest joy and satisfaction
and the reason why.